This will be the first documented brainstorm product of our Final Project

All ideas written will be based on everything that has been discussed as a team and all things that we 
wish to implement as our MVP(minimum viable product). So far, we have decided that the first
version of our project will be a web app that behaves like a personal trainer, with the goal of transition
to mobile once broader knowledge is achieved, such as learning new tech frameworks, obtaining our own domain, 
among other things.

Glossary:
    1) Vision and Mission
        a) our clientele
        b) our product
    2) Technical approach
    3) Back End
    4) Front end
    5) Minimum Viable Product
    6) Future expansions


1) Mission and Vision

       Given how we will work with a prototype of greater things to come, it might seem a little
    foolhardy to clearly define a vision of the project as a whole. However, in order to scale our startup,
    we must explore the bigger picture first and where the idea comes from. For starters, who we are and what
    our ultimate desire is. As developers, we have tools that can create solutions to problems, whether existing
    or new. The problem? The availability of quality personal training at a moment's notice.

    With health at the forefront of our intentions, we feel that the only way to tackle this issue 
    was to provide a readily available solution for our customer. Many times, we see people pick up training
    and not conclude whether an exercise was executed correctly or if it targets the desired muscles. At moments 
    like these, it would really benefit having an expert second opinion that provide accurate feedback. Some have
    even experienced shying away from asking another peer to correct their form and we easily compromise
    safety and sustainablity for the sake of our own satisfaction. Others can feel daunted when they are unsure
    if an exercise is according to their level, or worse, they feel disheartened when their strength
    has not grown to their desired or projected level, but lack the correct direction to progress.

    Well, this is where CorRep comes in. Our mission is to provide a quality, digitalized form checker for your exercising needs. 
    And thus, we can digitalize the knowledge and the 

    At CorRep, our vision is to change the way we streamline minimalized personal training. By this, we
    mean that the more nuanced concepts of training should be readily available to whoever needs it or wants it. 
    This would not entail that personal trainers are totally replaceable, but rather that a quality trainer is inserted
    into the training environment. 
