This document holds the documented ideas for our final project's mvp, a web app
called MoveRight. 

A) Initial idea and desire for the project:
    Questions to answer:
    1) Why did we choose the topic?
    2) Where did it come from?
    3) What is it meant to do?
    4) Are we the firsts? If not, what can we do different?
    
    The application came about after coming together with a single idea: the
development of an application that tracks user movement in exercising and corrects their
exercise form to ensure that they are targeting the correct muscle groups. In this new digital age, many applications
come and go, and with the advent of Artificial Intelligence, interfaces and app logics are becoming more engaging. Fitness
has also seen this boom, with AI making its way into the already existing applications: creation of 
fitness programs, from weekly microcycles to monthly mesocycles, and even to broader aspects of health, such as movement
patterns, nutritional analysis, overall health, etc. Now, why exercising? Well, I am passionate about it, it changed my outlook on
life and it helped me channel energy appropiately throughout my day. Exercising is something that should be a part of everyone's day.
The thing is, while exercising is not something complex, it still requires proper attention for correct execution. Picture this: you start
training, you are motivated, determined even, and your enthusiasm when it starts is uncontained. Or maybe it isnt, but nevertheless, you made up your
mind to exercise. Many start their journey, only to find that they don't know how to exercise. Yet they still go for it, 
even without the proper idea of whether they are doing it correctly. This can be demotivating in the tamest of cases, risky in the case of the
more particular or extreme. This was something that I troubled me when I could not afford a personal trainer, yet still needed the knowledge and the
feedback of an expert to guide me on this journey. Well, this is where the idea began to take shape. With technology becoming ever more present in our 
lives, why not use it to solve this problem? Hence, MoveRight was born.

    The purpose of the application is to target the more particular role of a personal trainer: someone, or something, that assessess your movement capacity
and gives corrections according to your overall movements. So, how can we do it? Well, by modeling after actual personal trainers, of course. When you exercise with a personal
trainer, they are constantly monitoring your exercise execution to ensure you are moving safely and correctly, to have you engage your muscles without compromising
your health, whilst also making it fun and challenging. This is the first idea that came to mind to what our new app should do, that it should behave like an essential part
of anyone's exercising journey. Sure, many other applications already exist, but the way apps have been built is almost exclusively towards exercise planning, agendas and such. While not bad, they
lack that real time interaction that is characteristic of personal trainers. They are good for keeping tabs on your repetitions, but maybe not so much on ensuring you get a
quality workout. They give static references to how you should lift, but they do not correct those tiny mistakes setting you back from having a quality workout. They may even include
pre recorded voices, but not have the element of diversity that makes it, well, diverse. With MoveRight, we see to it that engaging is a must. The application intends to be more than just 
recording movement, its meant to re shape the scope of fitness applications to a more sensible, practical and effective approach to fitness in the era of technology. How? By Utilizing
movement tracking and real time feedback to ensure the customer corrects their exercise form. Not just have a tool that tells us what to exercise, but how to exercise, and do it well. 

    As for our application, we would not be the first ones to target to this niche. There are several other applications that have incorporated AI into its core logic, which allows
prompts for exercise recommendations to be made based on what the consumer can say about them. A fantastic approach for those who can accurately describe their situation or already 
obtained that information beforehand and are consequently looking for the next step to take. Handy, but situational. The use of the camera is also not novel, meaning other applications
with this same techonology exists. Some applications have their trainer stand on the other side of the camera to engage with the client and utilize words of encouragement for customer to
use as a sort of follow along. Other applications can access the user camera and track very light movements, others have a more robust system and a myriad of libraries designed to analyze
various movements, yet behave as a fun game that incentivices and make the use of their technology fun. Yet, these products have taken years of development and not tackle the important issue:
being accessible. In any ways, quite a lot of applications seem to segway into their own little niche, they stick to their design(since it is their strength), yet leave space for more to
be developed. 

    And so, what do we want to do? Well, to fulfill a more complete role. Have our trained PT model cover numerous roles, all for one final function: start a user profile that they can
establish as a customer that needs a personal trainer, who can not only store their information, but also guide them in their training, give feedback on their form, give recommendations
based on their performance, model comparisons to show what the correct our clients can aim for, scale out growth and progress through means of setting progressions and regressions, 
training schemas and goals to accomplish. In essence, the application will behave fully like a personal trainer for our client to have in their pocket and on the go. The impact of which
will be significant, as the end goal will be a realistic approach to bring an exercising agent, one that is smart, one that adapts to the user's need(based on the information being provided in their movement),
one that behaves like the real thing.


B) Team formation:
    Questions to answer:
    1) Who are the members?
    2) What are their strengths?
    3) What are their roles in the team?

    With a considerable amount of moving parts, de projected for team roles and formations to conver all the bases accordingly. Our team of three: Jean Carrion, Joseph Gleason and Kevin Sanchez,
has been assigned their respective roles based on the needs, the brains and planification and the strengths of each one of them. Jean was chosen due to 

C) Technical approach:
    Topics to discuss:
    1) Our tech stack
    2) Reasons for choosing packages and dependencies
    3) The amount of work to put in

We have established the goal. And so, how do we get there? We determined from the getgo that the application should allow for intelligent analysis of user movement by tracking 
said movement by use of the camera device appended to the hardware where the software is running. 
Given the depth of what this would entail in terms of development, in order to reduce the complexity of the development in this
face, we determined to begin with a web app that eventually is ported into mobile; with the reason being
that we could use this opportunity to better understand the packages and modules to utilize before committing
to a much bigger project such as a mobile app. We also have the opportunity to scale the more complex aspects
of the project. Given how everything is moving to AI, we felt the application could operate to the 
vision that we have created by also having our own. Due to the daunting nature of integrating our own
deep learning model, or even our own neural network, we can scale it down by using friendlier math
patterns that allows us to capture and process data as given by captured images. 


    Now, in order to have the program perform as a personal trainer that can correct form, we need 
access to the camera that the computer can utilize to process and give real time feedback to our app's user. 
This is where we introduce the first elements of the operation: he crux of the operation revolves around the 
server side logic. The modules that will be used to access the user camera are the OpenCV module and MediaPipe module.
With the availability of various packages for processing images and creating body endpoints, we chose to proceed With
MediaPipie, as it is the more documented and explored of all the other modules created so far. Utilizing OpenCV was almost
a given, since it is also well documented, explored and developed. 

    Now, this is not where the backend finishes. Addressing the primary elements of the development phase, 
we stuck to our strengths and are working primarily to mitigate a lot of potential weaknesses. Regarding 
languages, we chose Python as the driver of our backend. The native language of our most important modules 
are written in C++, but with Python we can operate and access hardware and software just the same. The 
primary reason for choosing Python is, aside of having a language familiar to all members of the team, is the 
access to the complementary modules for our twp primary modules, which will be needed for analyzing data. 
As mentioned prior, MediaPipe and OpenCV are utilized for image data processing, and so, to aid us in the study of
this data, we would need complementary modules such as NumPy, Pytorch, Pandas and Scikit-learn to create the brain 
that will analyze the generated data. Thirdly, and most importantly, we can create our first layer of API endpoints
with the use of modules such as Flask and its expansions, RESTx and JWT for access and security, respectively. Likewise, 
databases and ORM can also be taken care of with Python's SQLAlchemy. Finally, our backend logic is tied with data atomicity
and persistence, for which we can implement various databases. User profiles can be recorded with SQL style 
databases such as SQLite and PosgreSQL, and NoSQL databases can be addressed with MongoDB's GridFS(more into this later)
Alternatively, we could use AWS and/or Amazon S3 for a more solid storage of larger data files for meticulous analysis
though that is to be discussed as the project increments. 

    Having all server side logic established, its now a matter of discussing the front end for dynamic server side rendering and for a simple, yet memorable interface. Far beyomd HTML, 
CSS and JavaScript, we also plan to incorporate React as our preparation to port into mobile overtime. React is the way to go for this project, it is easy to pick up, resources
are abundant for learning and the APIs provided make for great carryover to React Native, which will allow us to transition into a mobile app for all devices. While we are not looking
for something coagulated or complex, our interface should still be something clean, beautiful, memorable and above all simple. We look forward to all pages, transfer protocols
and styling to follow a correct and engaging logic to prepare for the logic desired of our final product. So, while things may change aesthetically, we wish for page redirection
and entities interaction to remain consistent all throughout the lifetime of the app. 

   The project at this point seems to head in the desired direction, and the idea of learning and creating, as taught during our trimester, will once again come into play here.
The reason being is that, in order to have the vision come to life, we must learn a new set of skills. Not just frameworks, but also more coding modalities and programming nuances
with the tools that we have already learned. For the back end, we are utilizing SciKit, Numpy and Pandas. All very great tools for the project, yet one that will require a proper 
and a novel training approach to be able to implement them in the scope of this operation. Likewise, the use of OpenCV and MediaPipe means that extra resources need to be learned by 
all members involved, so tha core backend logic can complement interface and display functionality. Having all members acquainted with the tools for the job ensures that the vision is captured
correctly for the client to experience. As such, it is to the responsiblity of the project assigned leader to ensurrre that all members are in the loop. In lieu of this, we reckon that there is 
indeed a tight schedule and considerable risk, not just for learning skills, but also for developing as we learn. Some of the aforementioned dependencies are well within our scope, and given that we have a robust team
for the task at hand, we can distribute everything equally to ensure that all pieces are constructed steadily. To ensure, however, that all is handled accordingly, careful and meticulous planning 
is the key to go, with this being unanimously decided: that we need to stick to schedules and work fast. As we speak, all ideas written here are also part of all contributed for the official
documentation and time is being actively invested on both resources and examples. It should also be mentioned that it is to the upmost and unwavering responsiblityof the project manager to ensure
all members are educated in the packages and modules to be utilized. 


D) Minimum Viable Product, future plans and conclusion:
    Questions and topics to discuss:
    1) What is the big Picture?
    2) What is the impact it will have?
    3) What ideas were established and what was discarded?
    4) How will the app work when put in demo?
    5) What can we release in 3 months?
    6) What can we leave for later?
