This document holds the documented ideas for our final project's mvp, a web app
called MoveRight. 

A) Initial idea and desire for the project:
    Questions to answer:
    1) Why did we choose the topic?
    2) Where did it come from?
    3) What is it meant to do?
    4) Are we the firsts? If not, what can we do different?
    
    The application came about after coming together with a single idea: the
development of an application that tracks user movement in exercising and corrects their
exercise form to ensure that they are targeting the correct muscle groups. In this new digital age, many applications
come and go, and with the advent of Artificial Intelligence, interfaces and app logics are becoming more engaging. Fitness
has also seen this boom, with AI making its way into the already existing applications: creation of 
fitness programs, from weekly microcycles to monthly mesocycles, and even to broader aspects of health, such as movement
patterns, nutritional analysis, overall health, etc. Now, why exercising? Well, I am passionate about it, it changed my outlook on
life and it helped me channel energy appropiately throughout my day. Exercising is something that should be a part of everyone's day.
The thing is, while exercising is not something complex, it still requires proper attention for correct execution. Picture this: you start
training, you are motivated, determined even, and your enthusiasm when it starts is uncontained. Or maybe it isnt, but nevertheless, you made up your
mind to exercise. Many start their journey, only to find that they don't know how to exercise. Yet they still go for it, 
even without the proper idea of whether they are doing it correctly. This can be demotivating in the tamest of cases, risky in the case of the
more particular or extreme. This was something that I troubled me when I could not afford a personal trainer, yet still needed the knowledge and the
feedback of an expert to guide me on this journey. Well, this is where the idea began to take shape. With technology becoming ever more present in our 
lives, why not use it to solve this problem? Hence, MoveRight was born.

    The purpose of the application is to target the more particular role of a personal trainer: someone, or something, that assessess your movement capacity
and gives corrections according to your overall movements. So, how can we do it? Well, by modeling after actual personal trainers, of course. When you exercise with a personal
trainer, they are constantly monitoring your exercise execution to ensure you are moving safely and correctly, to have you engage your muscles without compromising
your health, whilst also making it fun and challenging. This is the first idea that came to mind to what our new app should do, that it should behave like an essential part
of anyone's exercising journey. Sure, many other applications already exist, but the way apps have been built is almost exclusively towards exercise planning, agendas and such. While not bad, they
lack that real time interaction that is characteristic of personal trainers. They are good for keeping tabs on your repetitions, but maybe not so much on ensuring you get a
quality workout. They give static references to how you should lift, but they do not correct those tiny mistakes setting you back from having a quality workout. They may even include
pre recorded voices, but not have the element of diversity that makes it, well, diverse. With MoveRight, we see to it that engaging is a must. The application intends to be more than just 
recording movement, its meant to re shape the scope of fitness applications to a more sensible, practical and effective approach to fitness in the era of technology. How? By Utilizing
movement tracking and real time feedback to ensure the customer corrects their exercise form. Not just have a tool that tells us what to exercise, but how to exercise, and do it well. 

    As for our application, we would not be the first ones to target to this niche. There are several other applications that have incorporated AI into its core logic, which allows
prompts for exercise recommendations to be made based on what the consumer can say about them. A fantastic approach for those who can accurately describe their situation or already 
obtained that information beforehand and are consequently looking for the next step to take. Handy, but situational. The use of the camera is also not novel, meaning other applications
with this same techonology exists. Some applications have their trainer stand on the other side of the camera to engage with the client and utilize words of encouragement for customer to
use as a sort of follow along. Other applications can access the user camera and track very light movements, others have a more robust system and a myriad of libraries designed to analyze
various movements, yet behave as a fun game that incentivices and make the use of their technology fun. Yet, these products have taken years of development and not tackle the important issue:
being accessible. In any ways, quite a lot of applications seem to segway into their own little niche, they stick to their design(since it is their strength), yet leave space for more to
be developed. 

    And so, what do we want to do? Well, to fulfill a more complete role. Have our trained PT model cover numerous roles, all for one final function: start a user profile that they can
establish as a customer that needs a personal trainer, who can not only store their information, but also guide them in their training, give feedback on their form, give recommendations
based on their performance, model comparisons to show what the correct our clients can aim for, scale out growth and progress through means of setting progressions and regressions, 
training schemas and goals to accomplish. In essence, the application will behave fully like a personal trainer for our client to have in their pocket and on the go. The impact of which
will be significant, as the end goal will be a realistic approach to bring an exercising agent, one that is smart, one that adapts to the user's need(based on the information being provided in their movement),
one that behaves like the real thing. It's distinctive, since it performs multiple things, but it is also purposeful, for it does so with a clear goal and direction in mind. 


B) Team formation:
    Questions to answer:
    1) Who are the members?
    2) What are their strengths?
    3) What are their roles in the team?

    With a considerable amount of moving parts, we have projected for team roles and formations to conver all the bases accordingly. Our team of three: Jean Carrion, Joseph Gleason and Kevin Sanchez,
has been assigned their respective roles based on the needs, the brains and planification and the strengths of each one of them. The role of documenting ideas and changes has been assigned to Joseph, the creative
contributor and diagram creator has been assigned to Jean, and project direction and management has been given to Kevin. All the coding is also distributed equally: Jean will focus on the front end, 
Kevin will focus on the back end, and Joseph will perform as a mix of both, with the ability to cover most of the bases. The peer coding approach to be taken is the conductor-guide approach, where we 
can assign these roles and have them be interchangable to the respective roles. All decision making and last minute alterations are left to careful consideration as a team, which means no team proceeds
without an established concensus. 

C) Technical approach:
    Topics to discuss:
    1) Our tech stack
    2) Reasons for choosing packages and dependencies
    3) The amount of work to put in

We have established the goal. And so, how do we get there? We determined from the getgo that the application should allow for intelligent analysis of user movement by tracking 
said movement by use of the camera device appended to the hardware where the software is running. 
Given the depth of what this would entail in terms of development, in order to reduce the complexity of the development in this
face, we determined to begin with a web app that eventually is ported into mobile; with the reason being
that we could use this opportunity to better understand the packages and modules to utilize before committing
to a much bigger project such as a mobile app. We also have the opportunity to scale the more complex aspects
of the project. Given how everything is moving to AI, we felt the application could operate to the 
vision that we have created by also having our own. Due to the daunting nature of integrating our own
deep learning model, or even our own neural network, we can scale it down by using friendlier math
patterns that allows us to capture and process data as given by captured images. 


    Now, in order to have the program perform as a personal trainer that can correct form, we need 
access to the camera that the computer can utilize to process and give real time feedback to our app's user. 
This is where we introduce the first elements of the operation: he crux of the operation revolves around the 
server side logic. The modules that will be used to access the user camera are the OpenCV module and MediaPipe module.
With the availability of various packages for processing images and creating body endpoints, we chose to proceed With
MediaPipie, as it is the more documented and explored of all the other modules created so far. Utilizing OpenCV was almost
a given, since it is also well documented, explored and developed. 

    Now, this is not where the backend finishes. Addressing the primary elements of the development phase, 
we stuck to our strengths and are working primarily to mitigate a lot of potential weaknesses. Regarding 
languages, we chose Python as the driver of our backend. The native language of our most important modules 
are written in C++, but with Python we can operate and access hardware and software just the same. The 
primary reason for choosing Python is, aside of having a language familiar to all members of the team, is the 
access to the complementary modules for our twp primary modules, which will be needed for analyzing data. 
As mentioned prior, MediaPipe and OpenCV are utilized for image data processing, and so, to aid us in the study of
this data, we would need complementary modules such as NumPy, Pytorch, Pandas and Scikit-learn to create the brain 
that will analyze the generated data. Thirdly, and most importantly, we can create our first layer of API endpoints
with the use of modules such as Flask and its expansions, RESTx and JWT for access and security, respectively. Likewise, 
databases and ORM can also be taken care of with Python's SQLAlchemy. Finally, our backend logic is tied with data atomicity
and persistence, for which we can implement various databases. User profiles can be recorded with SQL style 
databases such as SQLite and PosgreSQL, and NoSQL databases can be addressed with MongoDB's GridFS(more into this later)
Alternatively, we could use AWS and/or Amazon S3 for a more solid storage of larger data files for meticulous analysis
though that is to be discussed as the project increments. 

    Having all server side logic established, its now a matter of discussing the front end for dynamic server side rendering and for a simple, yet memorable interface. Far beyomd HTML, 
CSS and JavaScript, we also plan to incorporate React as our preparation to port into mobile overtime. React is the way to go for this project, it is easy to pick up, resources
are abundant for learning and the APIs provided make for great carryover to React Native, which will allow us to transition into a mobile app for all devices. While we are not looking
for something coagulated or complex, our interface should still be something clean, beautiful, memorable and above all simple. We look forward to all pages, transfer protocols
and styling to follow a correct and engaging logic to prepare for the logic desired of our final product. So, while things may change aesthetically, we wish for page redirection
and entities interaction to remain consistent all throughout the lifetime of the app. 

   The project at this point seems to head in the desired direction, and the idea of learning and creating, as taught during our trimester, will once again come into play here.
The reason being is that, in order to have the vision come to life, we must learn a new set of skills. Not just frameworks, but also more coding modalities and programming nuances
with the tools that we have already learned. For the back end, we are utilizing SciKit, Numpy and Pandas. All very great tools for the project, yet one that will require a proper 
and a novel training approach to be able to implement them in the scope of this operation. Likewise, the use of OpenCV and MediaPipe means that extra resources need to be learned by 
all members involved, so tha core backend logic can complement interface and display functionality. Having all members acquainted with the tools for the job ensures that the vision is captured
correctly for the client to experience. As such, it is to the responsiblity of the project assigned leader to ensurrre that all members are in the loop. In lieu of this, we reckon that there is 
indeed a tight schedule and considerable risk, not just for learning skills, but also for developing as we learn. Some of the aforementioned dependencies are well within our scope, and given that we have a robust team
for the task at hand, we can distribute everything equally to ensure that all pieces are constructed steadily. To ensure, however, that all is handled accordingly, careful and meticulous planning 
is the key to go, with this being unanimously decided: that we need to stick to schedules and work fast. As we speak, all ideas written here are also part of all contributed for the official
documentation and time is being actively invested on both resources and examples. It should also be mentioned that it is to the upmost and unwavering responsiblityof the project manager to ensure
all members are educated in the packages and modules to be utilized. 


D) Minimum Viable Product, future plans and conclusion:
    Questions and topics to discuss:
    1) What is the big Picture?
    2) What is the impact it will have?
    3) What ideas were established and what was discarded?
    4) How will the app work when put in demo?
    5) What can we release in 3 months?
    6) What can we leave for later?

    This section describes in ample detail what our product will be.
    What we want to do:
        -> an app that guides the consumer to exercising correctly.
        -> stores basic user credentials and all relevant captured movements.

    
    Ideas discussed:
        What can the app do:
            -> Open a camera, capture exercise movement, give feedback on the execution.
            -> Give exercising recommendations after recording user. (Real time feedback, Post-workout analysis)
            -> Use a control group of correct form as a metric to how consumer should move. 

        The kind of training that was chosen:
            -> Calisthenics or body weight exercises
            -> Only 3 exercises as part of the MVP(pushups, squats, crunches)
            -> Progressions and regressions will be a part of future upgrades,
                1) First, we want to test that the back end logic works before adding more exercises.
                2) With approach revolving around abstract classes classes and inherited subclasses, 
                we would need to test this method for larger expansions and entity logic.
    
        Point of focus for app behavior when studying movement for analysis:
            -> Emphasis on as correct form as possible, based on limb angles and body alignment.
                1) The information collected will be used for one time analysis.
                2) Memory should not be cluttered with too many files. Only what is relevant for future analysis.  
            -> Alignments and angles are captured by camera, stored on NumPy arrays, passed over to Pandas' spreadsheets
            and analized with use of both Pandas and SciKit-Learn.
        
        Points of focus for interface details:


        Point of focus for consumer interface:
            -> Consumer can sign up with correct credentials tied to their email.
                1) Sign up can be done in:
                    a) One step signup(all info at once, name, email, age, height weight and exercise frequency)
                    b) two step signup(name and email first, the rest of the information is through a redirect link sent via email.)
                2) Can we create a message board tied to their email?
                3) Can we create a preset message and send it from the server to the email?
            -> Consumer information about their body proportions is stored for app recommendations(exercise times, intensity, volume, frequency, etc).
            -> Login session is protected through tokens and cookies. Only session users can access the camera to begin working out. 
            -> A couple of important points about the exercise session include:
                1) The site contains a separate page where the camera can be accessed.
                2) To begin recording, the client selects the exercise they wish to train(pushups, squats or crunches)
                3) Customer stands in front of the camera to begin pose estimation. These body points will anchor to a single user.
                For our first version, it will scan the very first person standing in front of the camera and it will scan a single user.
                4) The customer is then prompted to get into position to begin exercising, which will begin the process.
                ****NOTE: for recording to begin, the customer will need to stand to have the camera record their side(which ever side)
                5) As the consumer exercises, observations generated in real time will appear on the camera, which should prompt the user to follow its instructions
                for accurate exercise form. 
            -> Consumer will recieve a summary of their stats, the repetitions completed and the amounts completed correctly.
            -> User recieves a set of key notes to take into consideration for their next session, aimed to promote a more quality concurrent exercise session.
            -> Returning users are greeted back, while new users are welcome to the application.
            -> 
    
    The MVP, our desired product, should allow us to have all the aforementioned points established upon release. All points have a high probability of feasability, meaning that
with correct planning every point can have us come close to a considerably polished product ready for expansion in a span of 3 months. With many ideas and directions this could be lead to, 
our ultimate goal is to give a minimum taste for greater things to come. With many exercises and training modalities that could be explored with this application, the approach of using Calisthenics, 
or bodyweight exercises, offers a great mix of everything: small, yet complete. This also means as to why we decided for only 3 different exercises: they are a staple in almost every workout and are 
self sufficient for a beginner to start off with. The approach to extend this to more intermediate and advanced lifters(people that exercise) would be to add more reps or to add variations of these exercises.
The concept of variations has been left as a part of future upgrades to the app, since it requires careful planification of objects and logic, all with its own set of rules and focal points for the
camera and intelligence to study. As such, just three exercise will leave us with enough time and space to explore the server logic, cement it, yet provide a very complete product for the customer to
utilize, and finally, to accurately plan all expansions based on all successful ideas and failed ones. While the application should remain minimal in terms of the interface, it does not mean that we shouldn't
add enough aesthetics to give consumers something memorable. As the app grows, growth developed for the back end will have the interface grow and expand as a byproduct. For example, so far, we can establish
a quick sign up logic for the user to get started as soon as possible. Eventually, this can change into users having a welcome message sent from the server into the consumers email address. With this, a more abundant set
of questions can be asked the user, all with the idea of implementing as much a real experience and simulation to a personal trainer as it could possibly be done. 
Finally, and most importantly, we have the chance to prepare ourselves for what could be the largest portion that completes the desired expansions, but opens a new world of design: transitioning from a 
web app into a mobile app and, finally, utilizing a richer learning model that better engages the user. The learning model will grow over time and execute as a very real personal trainer, that can
invite you to exercise with push notifications, give more accurate recommendations from a more developed analysis model that better studies the user movements, robust body anchor points that study
larger concepts that can include equilibrium, disproportions, and also, have the PT give more exercises, progressions and regressions that go innaccordance with the user's level and growth. These progressions
can also be made into more complex exercises exclusive to calisthenics and street workout. This, and many more things could happen over time. 