1) Project objectives(what the product is, what innovations are being used and what
solutions are being solved)
-> A personal training app that checks the user form. 
-> Create confidence in the user to know that they are exercising correctly.
-> Ease access to knowledge of proper form and practices for exercise.
-> Teaches the user a new exercise. 
-> Revolutionizes the way of handling and delivering movement feedback.
-> Tracks user's limbs and processes movement through numerical and empirical data.

    Move Right is a web application that was created with the purpose of creating a training tool
assisted with computer vision, data capture and processing. The project goal is to use these programming
tools to provide consumer the satisfaction and confirmation to know that they are exercising correctly. We go
about this method by taking video captures of consumers exercising, displaying a pose estimation landmarking object 
over the user's body and tracking their limbs as they perform an exercising movement. This landmark object that sits
atop the user creates empirical data that is captured by the server and analized in real time for providing ready to use
information to give exercise form feedback to the consumer to correct posture or exercise form should the need for it arise. 

    Having metric data, we have the underlying goal to accomplish correct analysis and accurate and consistent logic. Since 
the web application has the large goal of obtaining quantified data for analysis instead of using the eyes and expertise of 
an actual physical human guiding you with your movement, the application must meet three important criteria for success: 
    1) The data is obtained consistently upon a single user.
    2) The data obtained and feedback given works for many individuals of varying backgrounds.
    3) Feedback output is provided correctly on all possible scenarios(correct and incorrect form)
With these smaller goals to accomplish a bigger goal mentioned above, the web application has the secondary goal of 
confirming the use of numerical and empirical data for body movement and exercising. See, this technology has other existing
applications in the realm of exercising and body movement, so with this application we can further invest into the research of 
utilizing numerical data for movement correctness and body health as opposed to simple visual cues. Furthermore, this can
allow the study of machine learning and algorithmic behaviour as tools to improve human living move forward into the new age.

2) Stakeholders and Team Roles:

Internal Stakeholders:
Project Manager - Kevin

Research and development - Kevin, Joseph and Jean

Documentation - Joseph

Developers:
    Joseph -> 
    
    Full stack developer role with the following responsibilities:
        a) Back End - classes, API routes and endpoints(alongside Kevin).
        b) Front End - page structure and styling(alongside Jean).
        c) Databases - schema development(alongside Kevin).
will be working as a full stack developer, approaching the structural and integral 
design patterns for the web application.
Back end:
For the back end role, he will work alongside Kevin to assist in the creation of classes
and subclasses necessary for entity logic and REST API methods by use of Flask and similar packages
and dependencies. He will also have a hand with creating the database schemas and structures. 
As part of his development responsibilities, his assistance will also require the best methods to 
implement for concise and efficient, yet safe, design web patterns. As such, research in regard to this 
will be required for a successful project. (Flask, Classes and Objects and Databases)

Front end: 
Likewise, he will also work alongside Jean with creating the essential layers for the Front End, such 
as the HTML documents and the CSS stylesheets. During this phase, it will also be beneficial and necessary to
discuss the HTTPS methods to ensure that the client recieves safe operation but also correctly structured
page redirection and beautiful client interface with style and coloring. (Structuring with HTML, Styling with CSS)

    Jean -> 
    
    Front End developer with the following responsibilities:
        a) Structure and Styling(alongside Joseph).
        b) Page dymanics and scripting.
        c) interface logic and aesthetics.
    
    will be assigned to the Front End development of the application. As a solely front end developer for this project, 
he is the man in charge for the development and control of the projects entire front end lifecycle, ensuring customers get A
memorable web app that catches the attention of the consumer, integrates all important portions of the back end logic and safely 
displays all correct and relevant information to the client such as movement, analysis and feedback. Aside of working alongside
Joseph to create and manage structure and styling, he will also work on dynamic scripting with JavaScript and for interface
creation and direction with React, the library utilized to transfer server logic unto a web application. As the front end developer, 
he will ensure that all server logic works well with dynamic scripts and Flask routes for solid logic. Likewise, he will also
develop our main stylistic patterns and scripting patterns for a beautiful website.
Front End: (Scripting with JavaScript for Dynamic FE, Interface with React)

    Kevin -> 
    
    Back End developer with the following responsibilities:
        a) classes, API routes and endpoints(alongside Joseph).
        b) server side logic and data manipulation.
        c) source code containerizing.
    
    will be assigned to the Back End development of the application. As a solely back end developer, his
responsibilities ensure that all server side logic ties well, is precise, is delivered correctly to the front end
and takes customer safety and information preservation. Aside of working alongside Joseph with the creation of 
all CRUD methods, all entities, all classes and database schemas, he will also research and develop the main crux of the 
operation that pertains to the display of images, compiling of user movement, processing of movement data and feedback model
for consumer satisfaction. To this extent, it is his responsiblityto ensure all the relevant packages, dependencies and coding
paradigms are up to the desired output and information adds congruently.
Back End: Server Logic with OpenCV, MediaPie, data processing with NumPy Pandas Sci Kit

External stakeholders:
    1) Sean Cardona - programming instructor and development counselor.

    2) Adam Beguelin - programming instructor and development counselor.
   
    3) Jeremy Reyes - known associate of Kevin, personal training coach, third party guide for exercising and form correctnesss.

    4) Target #1 - test control consumer and tester

    5) Target #2 - test control consumer and tester

3) Scope definition:

In Scope:
    1) Single training modality
    2) Single hardware
    3) Simple machine learning model

Out of Scope:
    1) Variety of exercising:
    > MVP will focus on a short list of exercises for the development of correct logic and
    consistent output. More exercises will be developed as the technology and resources are less stringent.

    2) Multiple training discipline:
    > MVP will focus on a single training modality for the sake of correct and concise development. Likewise, 
    training methods that require other external equipment will be avoided for ease of use and less consumer limitations.

    3) Exercise progressions and regressions:
    > this pertains to recommending specific exercises that will bring the user to a harder or easier
    level which go to their needs. 

4) Risks:
cv2.VideoCapture() <--- creates a process to read camera in: the device it is running, a separate camera or null
-> Potential worst case scenario: a customer has a device with no camera that can be acessed. 
The solution? Customer can send a video of themselves to allow for service to be provided, albeit not in real time.

-> Incorrect feedback, which equals to data being processed incorrectly in proportion to the user or their movement. 
The solution? Test on numerous consumers of diverse body proportions and focus on obtaining a consistent output.
Test an obviously incorrect exercise technique, and a seemingly correct technique but with subtle flaws. 
Finally, test textbook correct form and focus on obtaining consistently correct output from the training model.

-> Bad data storage, which indicates incorrect setting of database and/or broken API logic. This process requires a lot 
of anticipation and preparation for consumer logic. The solution? Invest into research and do it early, establish schema, classes
and CRUD behavior early in the brainstorming phase to avoid any unnecessary recreation of databases down the road. 

-> Bad interface, which may equal to poorly structured front end development and/or wonky server side code.

App runs, but it is too slow. 



5) High Level planning:

-> The process will be divided in 5 phases and are accorded as following: 

Phase 1 -> Process of decision making.
This process lasts an entire month from the inception of the idea and the choosing of all
resources to utilize up until everything is recompiled for the technical documentation.
This process involves:
    a) Research into our software and hardware tools
    b) Meetings to discuss all compiled information
    c) Decision making for choosing in scope and out of scope.

Phase 2 -> Preparation of technical documentation
This second phase will begin after deciding every aspect of the project in terms of concretion
and abstraction. These two weeks are the time for any final alterations to our tech stack, but we
will focus on making a document to present everything in order and begin tracking our development process.

Phase 3 -> Coding
 Stage 1 Coding: Structures(Front End) Classes and Endpoints for API(Back End)

Phase 4 -> Testing and Debugging
 Stage 1 Debugging

Phase 5 -> Project Closure and Demo preparation
Tweaking the final details and debugging whatever is necessary
**Note: by this point in time, every change should be VERY MINOR
Prepare for demo day. 

    